# Collecting Usage Statistics with the zopen community Package Manager

Usage statistics collection in zopen community Package Manager was introduced to gather anonymized usage data. 
The collected usage data plays an important role in improving functionality, identifying popular packages, and optimizing zopen community user experience.
The usage statistics are viewable at this url: [https://usage.zopen.community/](https://usage.zopen.community/)

## How to Opt-In

* During the initialization process using the zopen init command, users will be prompted to opt-in or opt-out of statistics collection.
* Users can also pass in the following options to `zopen init:
  * `--enable-stats`: Enables the collection of usage statistics.
  * `--noenable-stats`: Disables the collection of usage statistics.

Note: IBM hostnames are automatically opted in.

## How to Opt-Out After Opting In
* If you initially opted in but now wish to opt out, you can set the `is_collecting_stats` field to false in the JSON file located at: `$ZOPEN_ROOTFS/etc/zopen/config.json`.

## Data Captured
1. **Package Installations:**
   - **Package Name:** Identifies the installed package.
   - **Version:** Captures the version of the installed package.
   - **Timestamp:** Records the installation date and time.
   - **Upgrade Status:** Indicates whether the installation is an upgrade.
   - **Runtime Dependency:** Indicates whether the installation is installed as part of a runtime dependency
   - **Build Install:** Indicates whether the installation is installed as part of a build install

2. **Package Removals:**
   - **Package Name:** Specifies the removed package.
   - **Version:** Captures the version of the removed package.
   - **Timestamp:** Records the removal date and time.

3. **System Profile:**
   - **UUID:** Provides a unique identifier for the user's system profile. This is generated by using the current date and a random number and does not rely on any sensitive information.
   - **IBM Host Status:** Indicates whether the host is an IBM server.
   - **Bot Status:** Identifies whether the script is executed in a Jenkins, CI/CD environment.

## Ensuring Anonymity and Privacy

All collected data is anonymized and no personal data is recorded.

We do not capture any sensitive information such as your ip address, hostname, or file system details. 

If you have opted out, usage statistics will not be collected.

## Usage Statistics

Browse https://usage.zopen.community
[](https://usage.zopen.community ':include :type=iframe name="iframe1" width=100% height=100% frameborder="0" scrolling="yes" onload="styleandresizeIframe(this)"')
